Presentation Script
      prompt: write a narrative for each visualization -> what can say about each one, what they sat about music trends, what that means, analysis
      notes: 10 minute long script -> time it
             make an outline of the presentation, then write the script
      canva -> https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/paradisejoy/top-hits-spotify-from-20002019/data 

notes for meeting:
What mean with limitations on canva, what is 'user preference' mean? Like, how to explain it more in detail.
ask to elaborate more on making the database so I can fill the script


version 3
-----Intro-----
      Hello and welcome to our presentation, Spotify Data Visualizations. Our group studied trends of four different music genres from between 1998 and 2020, then created an interactive website to display our findings. Hello I'm (everyone introduces themselves)


version3
-----Intro-----
      Hello and welcome to our presentation, Spotify Data Visualizations. Our group analyzed music trends between 1998 and 2020, then created an interactive website to display them. Hello, I'm [everyone introduces themselves]. 
      We chose this topic because music is an integral part of society that reflects and influences culture. Music changes over time and genres influence each other or emerge. Our presentation is a small glimpse into what trends have occurred during two decades. 

-----Project Goals-----
      To begin, our main objective was to analyze the data for any notable patterns ot trends. The music was quantified based on variables such as song duration, tempo (aka beats per minute, bpm), and speechiness (how much speech was in the track). 
      More specifically, we wanted to investigate quantitatively how music varies depending on time or genre. Some notable examples include rock from the 50s compared to rock from the 70s, such as Elvis Presley versus Queen. Both are rock but are very different. While 'style' or 'vibe' aren't measurable, factors like duration or danceability can be measured and tracked over time. 
      We also wanted to investigate explicitness across time and genre. As society trends towards being more accepting and open, how does explicitness change over time? 
      Lastly, another specific apsect we wanted to investigate was how song duration changed over time, as it was a personal observation that songs seemed "shorter these days." 
      The data will reveal how each aspect affects music (something something)

-----Data Sources-----
We chose the dataset 'Top Hits Spotify from 2000-2019.' This is provided by Data Science company Kaggle has statistics of the top 2000 tracks from Spotify between 1998 and 2020. It contains 18 columns describing the tracks including genre, loudness, duration, and more. 

-----Considerations and Limitations-----
      There are a few limitations to take into account
      Firstly, this data is limited by source. It only comes from one place, Spotify. The data isn't cross-referenced with other notable sources such as the Billboard Hot 100 or Apple Music. Also, other metrics such as streams on other platforms (like YouTube), album sales, or radio plays are not taken into consideration on popularity or which songs were in the dataset. 
      Secondly, the dataset is relatively small compared to music as a whole. It only considers 'top hits.' This means songs that didn't chart or were not as popular are not considered in the dataset. It merges genres, so if only a few songs in a genre were included, the sample size is much smaller. To explain, in 2010 Pop had 44 songs compared to Rock having only 2. The sample sizes, when comparing genres, are inequal.
      There also must be some considerations as well. 
      These considerations include the dataset being relatively small, and having incomplete parts. 
      Cultural shifts also have to be considered. As mentioned before, rock music in the 50s and 70s are very distinctly different despite being the same genre. Cultural shifts in how a genre is defined will skew the data. 
      Also, despite Spotify declaring these 'top' songs, individual preference still exists. Just because a song was 'top' or 'popular' doesn't mean it was widely loved or like... onsectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. 

-----Data Process and Cleanup-----
      The data was stored and extracted from a SQL database. SQLite was used to manipulate the data and create queries.
      HTML was used including Chart.js and Axios. Flask was used for querying.
      Visualizations were displayed through three seperate applications. 
      Something about how to create a database, set it up, transform the data, clean it up.




-----Visualization 1----
genre -> average metric : change in metric over time for genre
The first interactive set of charts has users select genre and then a metric 
it shows each genre and metric over to track changes in the genre over time
music evolves and changes, what is 'pop' in the past is relative to its time -> show changes like duration
can track evolutions in music over the past two decades -> music branches into different genres, or different genres are popular
pop ->  a contemporary form of music that appeals to a very wide audience -> genre shifts from decade to decade 80s rock to 90s boybands 

-----Visualization 2----
interactive #2
genre : count of songs over time 
might reflect popularity of certain genres over time -> 


-----Visualization 3----


-----Visualization 4----



interactive #2
genre : count of songs over time 
might reflect popularity of certain genres over time -> 

